<!DOCTYPE HTML PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.0 Transitional//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml1/DTD/xhtml1-transitional.dtd">
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml"><head>

<meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=iso-8859-1" />

<title>JSR 355 EG meeting  minutes: February 7, 2012</title><style type="text/css">
<!--
.style1 {color: #FF0000}
.style2 {color: #000000; }
-->
</style></head><body>
<h1 align="center">JSR 355 Expert Group  Meeting Minutes<br />
for 7 February 2012</h1>
<p align="center"><em>version 0.1: February 8, 2011</em></p>
<h2><strong>Date</strong></h2>
<p>February 7     ,   2012</p>
<h2>Location</h2>
<p>Teleconference</p>
<h2><strong>Agenda</strong></h2>
<ul>
  <li>Continued discussion of plans outlined in the <a href="http://java.net/projects/jsr355/downloads/download/Meeting Materials/EC-merge-February.pdf">EC-merge
      presentation</a></li>
  <li> <a href="http://java.net/projects/jsr355/pages/Home"></a> See also
      the  <a href="http://jcp.org/en/jsr/summary?id=355">JSR
          page</a>, and <a href="http://java.net/projects/jsr355/pages/Home">java.net
          project</a></li>
  </ul>
<h2>Attendance:</h2>
<table border="1" width="100%">
  <tbody><tr>
    <td colspan="2"><div align="center"><strong>PMO</strong></div></td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td colspan="2"><ul>
      <li>Patrick Curran, Heather Vancura</li>
      </ul></td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td width="50%"><div align="center"><strong>ME EC </strong></div></td>
    <td><div align="center"><strong>SE/EE EC </strong></div></td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td><ul>
            
      <li class="style2">Stefano Andreani <em>&#8211; present</em></li>
      <li>Aplix &#8211; John Rizzo &#8211; <em>present</em> </li>
      <li class="style1">ARM &#8211; not <em>present</em></li>
      <li class="style2">AT&amp;T <em>&#8211; </em>Roger Mahler<em> &#8211; <em>present</em></em></li>
      <li class="style1">CableLabs &#8211; not <em>present</em></li>
      <li>IBM &#8211; Steve Wolfe &#8211; <em>present</em></li>
      <li><span class="style2">Werner Keil &#8211; <em>presen</em>t</span></li>
      <li class="style2">Nokia &#8211; Kimmo L&ouml;yt&auml;n&auml;  &#8211; <em>present</em></li>
      <li>Oracle &#8211; Calinel Pasteanu <em>&#8211; present</em></li>
      <li class="style1">RIM <em>&#8211; not present</em></li>
      <li class="style1">Samsung <em>&#8211; not present</em></li>
      <li class="style2">Siemens <em>&#8211; </em>Marquart Franz<em> <em>&#8211; present</em></em></li>
      <li class="style1">SK Telecom <em>&#8211; not present</em> </li>
      <li class="style1">T-Mobile <em>&#8211; not present</em> </li>
      <li class="style2">TOTVS &ndash;&nbsp;Rob Glidden, Aguinaldo Boquimpani <em class="style2"><em>&ndash; present</em></em></li>
      <li class="style2">Vodafone <em>&#8211; </em>Edin Bektesevic <em class="style2"><em>&ndash; present</em></em></li>
    </ul>    
      <p>Total attendance: 10 </p></td>
    <td><ul>
      <li class="style2">Azul Systems &#8211;Gile Tene &#8211;<em> present</em></li>
      <li class="style2">Credit Suisse &#8211; Victor Grazi, Susanne Cech Previtali &#8211;<em> present</em></li>
      <li>Eclipse &#8211; Wayne Beaton <em><span class="style2">&#8211; present</span></em></li>
      <li><span class="style2">Ericsson &#8211; Magnus L&ouml;nnroth &#8211; <em>present</em></span></li>
      <li>Fujitsu &#8211; Mike DeNicola  &#8211; <em>present</em></li>
      <li>Goldman Sachs &#8211; John Weir &#8211; <em>present</em> </li>
      <li class="style1">Google <em>&#8211; not present</em> </li>
      <li>HP &#8211; Scott Jameson  &#8211; <em> present </em> </li>
      <li>IBM &#8211; Steve Wolfe &#8211; <em>present</em></li>
      <li>Intel &#8211; Anil Kumar &#8211; <em>present</em></li>
      <li class="style2">London Java Community &#8211; Martijn Verburg &#8211; <em>present</em> </li>
      <li>Oracle &#8211; Don Deutsch &#8211;<em> present</em></li>
      <li>RedHat  &#8211; Mark Little, Scott Stark &#8211; <em>present</em></li>
      <li>SAP &#8211; Steve Winkler &#8211; <em>present</em></li>
      <li class="style1">SouJava <em>&#8211; not present</em> </li>
      <li>Twitter &#8211; Attila Szegedi  &#8211; <em>present</em></li>
    </ul>
       <p>Total attendance: 14</p></td>
  </tr>
</tbody></table>

<h2>Minutes</h2>
<p> Patrick reported that
  the JSR approval ballot had begun on the day of the EC meeting. He summarized
  the results of previous discussions, noting that a great deal of progress had
  already been made, with consensus having been achieved on most items (see
  the  <a href="http://java.net/projects/jsr355/downloads/download/Meeting Materials/EC-merge-February.pdf">presentation</a>.) The group discussed two items
  on which consensus had not yet been reached:</p>
<p>1) Switch from a three-year
  to a two-year election cycle?</p>
<p>After a brief discussion a straw-poll was conducted. The results showed a
  clear preference for a two-year cycle (17 votes to 4, with 3 abstentions.)</p>
<p>2) Increase the minimum number of &quot;yes&quot; votes required for JSR 
approval? </p>
<p>Patrick noted that the current process requires a minimum of  five yes votes
for JSR approval. If this were to be considered as a percentage of the number
  of voting members on the EC as opposed to an absolute number then this implies
  that on a merged EC of 25 members the minimum should be raised to eight. </p>
<p>Some members argued for raising the minimum to eight, on the grounds that
  it ought not to be &quot;too easy&quot; to get a JSR through the process. Others argued
  for caution, saying that we did not know how such a change might interact with
  the changes in  the structure
  and membership of the EC - it might result in a failure to get worthy JSRs
  approved. Another argument for the status quo was that so long as the proposers
  of a JSR could get a minimum level of support they should be permitted to proceed.
  We then took a straw-poll, which showed a strong consensus for making no change
  (18 votes to 5.)</p>
<p>Patrick then asked whether EG members wished to make any further suggestions
  for changes to be incorporated into this JSR. None were made.</p>
<p>The group then discussed how to proceed with the JSR. We agreed that since
  we had such a strong consensus and had already worked out most of the details
  of what needed to be done, it would not be necessary to meet as a Working Group,
  separately from regular EC meetings. Patrick agreed to create an issue in
  the
  <a href="http://java.net/jira/browse/JSR355">Issue Tracker</a> for each of
  the decisions that the group had made, so that members of the public could
  comment if they wished. He also agreed to create a first draft of the revised
  Process Document (and Standing Rules, if necessary) before the next EC meeting,
  so that during that meeting the group could approve these documents as
  the submissions for Early Draft Review.</p>
<h3>&nbsp;</h3>
</body></html>