# JSR 355 Expert Group Meeting Minutes  
for 7 February 2012

_version 0.1: February 8, 2011_

## **Date**

February 7 , 2012

## Location

Teleconference

## **Agenda**

*   Continued discussion of plans outlined in the [EC-merge presentation](http://java.net/projects/jsr355/downloads/download/Meeting%20Materials/EC-merge-February.pdf)
*   [](http://java.net/projects/jsr355/pages/Home)See also the [JSR page](http://jcp.org/en/jsr/summary?id=355), and [java.net project](http://java.net/projects/jsr355/pages/Home)

## Attendance:

<table border="1" width="100%">

<tbody>

<tr>

<td colspan="2">

<div align="center">**PMO**</div>

</td>

</tr>

<tr>

<td colspan="2">

*   Patrick Curran, Heather Vancura

</td>

</tr>

<tr>

<td width="50%">

<div align="center">**ME EC**</div>

</td>

<td>

<div align="center">**SE/EE EC**</div>

</td>

</tr>

<tr>

<td>

*   Stefano Andreani _– present_
*   Aplix – John Rizzo – _present_
*   ARM – not _present_
*   AT&T _–_ Roger Mahler _– _present__
*   CableLabs – not _present_
*   IBM – Steve Wolfe – _present_
*   <span class="style2">Werner Keil – _presen_t</span>
*   Nokia – Kimmo Löytänä – _present_
*   Oracle – Calinel Pasteanu _– present_
*   RIM _– not present_
*   Samsung _– not present_
*   Siemens _–_ Marquart Franz __– present__
*   SK Telecom _– not present_
*   T-Mobile _– not present_
*   TOTVS – Rob Glidden, Aguinaldo Boquimpani __– present__
*   Vodafone _–_ Edin Bektesevic __– present__

Total attendance: 10

</td>

<td>

*   Azul Systems –Gile Tene – _present_
*   Credit Suisse – Victor Grazi, Susanne Cech Previtali – _present_
*   Eclipse – Wayne Beaton _<span class="style2">– present</span>_
*   <span class="style2">Ericsson – Magnus Lönnroth – _present_</span>
*   Fujitsu – Mike DeNicola – _present_
*   Goldman Sachs – John Weir – _present_
*   Google _– not present_
*   HP – Scott Jameson – _present_
*   IBM – Steve Wolfe – _present_
*   Intel – Anil Kumar – _present_
*   London Java Community – Martijn Verburg – _present_
*   Oracle – Don Deutsch – _present_
*   RedHat – Mark Little, Scott Stark – _present_
*   SAP – Steve Winkler – _present_
*   SouJava _– not present_
*   Twitter – Attila Szegedi – _present_

Total attendance: 14

</td>

</tr>

</tbody>

</table>

## Minutes

Patrick reported that the JSR approval ballot had begun on the day of the EC meeting. He summarized the results of previous discussions, noting that a great deal of progress had already been made, with consensus having been achieved on most items (see the [presentation](http://java.net/projects/jsr355/downloads/download/Meeting%20Materials/EC-merge-February.pdf).) The group discussed two items on which consensus had not yet been reached:

1) Switch from a three-year to a two-year election cycle?

After a brief discussion a straw-poll was conducted. The results showed a clear preference for a two-year cycle (17 votes to 4, with 3 abstentions.)

2) Increase the minimum number of "yes" votes required for JSR approval?

Patrick noted that the current process requires a minimum of five yes votes for JSR approval. If this were to be considered as a percentage of the number of voting members on the EC as opposed to an absolute number then this implies that on a merged EC of 25 members the minimum should be raised to eight.

Some members argued for raising the minimum to eight, on the grounds that it ought not to be "too easy" to get a JSR through the process. Others argued for caution, saying that we did not know how such a change might interact with the changes in the structure and membership of the EC - it might result in a failure to get worthy JSRs approved. Another argument for the status quo was that so long as the proposers of a JSR could get a minimum level of support they should be permitted to proceed. We then took a straw-poll, which showed a strong consensus for making no change (18 votes to 5.)

Patrick then asked whether EG members wished to make any further suggestions for changes to be incorporated into this JSR. None were made.

The group then discussed how to proceed with the JSR. We agreed that since we had such a strong consensus and had already worked out most of the details of what needed to be done, it would not be necessary to meet as a Working Group, separately from regular EC meetings. Patrick agreed to create an issue in the undefined for each of the decisions that the group had made, so that members of the public could comment if they wished. He also agreed to create a first draft of the revised Process Document (and Standing Rules, if necessary) before the next EC meeting, so that during that meeting the group could approve these documents as the submissions for Early Draft Review.